all right boys and girls we have a very
special episode for you today we've had
a lot of amazing guests join us here at
impact theory and the team here has put
together their most amazing hacks into
one compilation that I know you guys are
going to enjoy but please go beyond the
enjoyment and actually put some of this
stuff to use because that's my friends
is the key to success all right without
further ado take a look at our first
hack hack number one how to never worry
again I want to start with something we
can all relate to and that is how do you
stop worrying and how do you stop
listening self-doubt this is how you're
going to do it so all day long you're
going to have moments where your
thoughts drift and I use that word on
purpose because for me there is a
physical sensation when you start to use
the five-second rule and you start to
wake up not only on time in the morning
but you wake up to your life and the
opportunities in your life there's your
thoughts drift like you'll just be
hanging out with your friends and then
suddenly you're like I'm not sure that
the person likes me anymore you know I
haven't heard from my kids lately I
wonder if they're dead or you know you
know as I check it like you just start
worrying about stuff why because it's a
habit because when you're not paying
attention your brain shifts from you
being a decision-maker and paying
attention to you just kind of spinning
things on autopilot and one of your
habits is worrying the second you wake
up and you notice holy cow I'm talking
some negative garbage to myself right
now five four three two one
you've just shifted the part of the
brain that you're using you've shifted
from the basal ganglia which is where
your habit loops are spinning and you've
awakened your prefrontal cortex
you've also interrupted that pattern now
what you're going to do because your
mind is actually ready to receive a
different thought because of the
counting now you can put in an anchor
pot like if you have a mantra if you've
got a vision about the way that your
business is going to turn out in five
years if you just have a thought that
makes you really happy and proud
insert that now why does this work it
works because of the counting and I'm
not kidding we know based on research
the positive thinking alone not
effective in some instances trying to
force yourself to think positive can
actually make the worries worse why well
the reason why is because it's really
hard to just change the channel what we
have to do first is basically interrupt
it and turn off the TV and then turn it
back on with the prefrontal cortex
awakened so the counting is essential
and so you can start using this today
you catch yourself talking garbage to
yourself five four three two one switch
it back get back to that vision that you
have about toasting your success or this
customer being really happy or you being
proud of yourself
whatever that vision may be you can
control your thoughts and this is not
just us talking about it this is a tool
that you can use tact number two how to
set better goals the first question you
ask yourself to identify your end goals
is what experiences do I want to have in
life and this is where you start writing
down your experiences and you know when
I do this exercise I ask people to take
out a piece of paper draw three columns
so if you're watching do that right now
take out a piece of paper three columns
top of the first column you're going to
write down experiences right and ask
yourself what experiences do I want to
have who do I want to wake up with what
has a house do I want to live in what
countries do I want to visit where do I
want to travel to what adventures do I
want to have whether it's climbing Mount
Kinabalu or hiking the Andes what type
of family life do I want what dog do I
want the beautiful thing about
experiences is often they don't require
that much money it's crazy we associate
money with happiness but often the most
beautiful experiences in life require no
money almost any human being today can
fall in love can make a baby these are
some of the most profound experiences I
have so the first thing is you make a
list of the experiences now the second
thing is you ask yourself this question
for me to be the man or woman who has
all of these experiences how do I have
to grow and here we come to the second
list see I believe
we are souls having a human experience
here on planet Earth but these souls are
not just here to explore all of these
wonderful things about the inhuman I
believe as as souls as human beings we
could grow human beings are growth
driven machines and so you make that
second list and that second list is how
do I want to grow how can I learn to be
a better father a better spouse a better
lover what languages do you want to
learn do you want to learn a musical
instrument do you want to learn to write
do you want to learn to play a
particular sport or learn a particular
skill what many people don't realize
about the world is that growth is a goal
in itself it's one of the key things
that drive us forward as human beings
but very few people write down growth as
goals because the education system which
tries to teach us to grow through forced
learning makes many people dread
learning so growth becomes that second
list now you have to list your
experiences and your growth now you ask
yourself the third question and the
third question is this to be that man or
woman who has all of these experiences
to be that man of woman who has grown in
such a way how can I give back to the
world and it's a very important reason
for that question the Dalai Lama said if
you want to be happy make other people
happy and I believe that when you do
these three most important questions
that third category is what truly leads
to post Thurman it's when you can take
your growth you can take your
experiences and contribute to fellow
source contribute to the human race
you've learned entrepreneurship great
mentor someone mentor a kid who wants to
get there you you have the ability to
sing figure out how to use it to deliver
you know beautiful music to inspire
people so your list of contributions
becomes your steps for you to give back
to the world because that takes you
beyond pure happiness into fulfillment
now when you have this list experience
this growth and contribution this
becomes your goal list everything else
is just a means goal now when I started
creating this
I found that it allowed me to rewire my
brain to shortcut and bypass so many
[__] rules to go straight to these
final items to go straight to ways I
could contribute ways I could grow ways
I could have these beautiful experiences
and often these were unconventional
talks like when I started my company I
didn't work with any investors or VCS
I decided to start my own University
which is happening in Barcelona but it
all came because when you have done the
three most important questions you get
to short-circuit the rules of the
culture scale and figure out shorter
paths towards true human fulfillment PAC
number three had a master self-awareness
eye that wrote this thing called a
discourse on truth right and I had I had
it bound up Wow
i Kinkos and it looked really nice and I
had the perfect font and I got a four
paper and I made like a hundred copies
of it then it was just like very
highfalutin kind of very pretentious ly
worded thing that went through truths
and ways to know it and things like that
and I gave it to all my family and my
friends who are like you know what is
this thing you know this looks like you
just you know so but it was so important
for me and when you learn how to to
listen to your own story and write it
down
I think self-awareness is like an
inevitable byproduct of that because you
get addicted to knowing what you think
about something yeah I think this is
weird state we all have you know we're
operating on old memories and we're
operating on things that we read but we
haven't really like retained as soon as
you start transferring that whole messy
cloudy misty area of knowledge into
explicit knowledge you're going to start
seeing a lot more in yourself and what's
out there and so my advice is to write
just write and the rest will follow
pack number four how to have a balanced
life and I've always been a very
realistic person I've always been
someone who asked myself you know every
six weeks or so am I happy this is a
really simple thing it's just like it's
either the answers are either yet um or
no I mean you know what I mean here and
if it's a no it's like okay well am i
doing things that while right now maybe
I'm not like blissfully happy are
working towards something that I know
will make me happy you know what I mean
like and am I generally happy with the
idea of the trade-offs that I'm making
right now or that I have to deal with
you know does that make me happy
and if that's a yes it's like okay cool
but if it's still a no it's a stop
everything's no this doesn't make sense
um and so I've always been the kind of
person who would check in again because
I feel like different place them for
that like where you would really just
say every morning I'm going to ask
myself this or no I mean I think there
are two systems I really have one was
the check-in which I do just it's more
like you can sense if you take some time
to be quiet you can sense when you're
not in equilibrium and then that's when
you ask that's it
like you should just running running
running running running without taking a
time to just figure you know where you
are I mean then there's probably going
to be other symptoms where you're just
overeating or overdoing this or not
sleeping like you'll people will be able
to tell you yeah you don't look balanced
if you ask if you ask them so like
that's the time to ask yourself and then
the second thing is a list and the key
thing about that list that it's always
more than what I could ever reasonably
accomplishing that day because I like to
push myself you always been to
accomplishing still more than what you
think and I like to never feel satisfied
with myself and I've been doing those
two things for 10 years and that's why
I'm here hack number 5 how to test the
impossible now one of the promises in
the the press kit was that you could
test the impossible and 17 questions
yeah what are what are some of the
questions so the questions are
actual questions that coincided with
milestones or inflection points or just
a fork in my own life and some of them
would be for instance what if I did the
opposite for 48 hours it's a very
recoverable experiment but if it doesn't
work then I can always go back to those
day doing the opposite meant making my
calls between let's just say 6:30 and
8:30 and then 5:30 to 7:00 7:30 and it
was just a hypothesis maybe I can get a
hold of the people I need to get a hold
of more effectively when the gatekeepers
aren't there and that's exactly what
happened and I started booking more
meetings and closing more deals than
than the majority of the guys in the
company and it was just from asking that
question what if it did the opposite for
48 hours and you can apply that to many
many things and some of the others would
be well this is one I asked in 2004 if I
had a gun against my head and could only
work two hours per week what would I do
I know it's impossible what would I do
and that type of ludicrous question was
necessary to break my thinking patterns
and test stress test my own assumptions
of what was possible and you find that
that is a learnable skill I'll give you
another question that I think you'll
really like which is one of the
seventeen what can I learn from the
people I hate the most Wow now this does
two things it forces you to separate
your morality from your your search for
effectiveness right it also helps you to
develop some degree of empathy and those
two are very powerful so what can I
learn from the people I hate most is a
very very useful practice well journal
on that very often in terms of patterns
we were talking about some of the things
I've spotted meditation or journaling
are performed by close to a hundred
percent
I interview pack number six how to learn
something new you said that once you
decided that you had found a real
problem that you began reading
voraciously on the topic how do you
approach like in fact give us a real
example of this like when you decide
that you're going to get into that how
do you learn about it like your
knowledge on the subject now is is huge
if you are an expert in that field my
best advice is not to go do something in
the space that you know a lot about if
you are an expert you are only able to
make an incremental improvement to the
things that are already being done so I
always tend to this is my strategy of
limited your own way of thinking because
you take many of the things as granted
that means the foundational things that
you have you take them at janta question
you don't even question them that is how
it is done when you come from outside
the industry you're able to question
every single thing that people have
taken it for granted so if you think
about this is my seventh company and I
have never started if no two companies
had ever been in the same industry all
right when I started space I had no idea
how somebody is going to go to the moon
my first question when somebody asked me
that was I have no idea it keeps moving
every time I talk here it goes then
under understood there is orbital
dynamics around there right that became
really easy so I was known as the space
junkie because I started to learn about
space and then when I saw this
technology at Los Alamos National Lab
that they are able to analyze the body
every single thing that's going inside
it was fascinating enough then I say you
know what I am going to go start reading
and then I go my first approach is to go
find 10 20 books that I can read I never
like to read one book because then you
are more or less that person's belief
system becomes your belief system so
what I do is I read 20 different authors
because I want to see where the people
differ from so I can form the opinion
because now I know what everyone else is
saying then I start reading all the
science journal what do you do when you
encounter something other you donors
and like so micro biome is so vast so
the thing is yuan you need to understand
the basic vocabulary so as you know I'm
also on the board of singularity
University and being on the board of
singularity University it gives me the
basic background of what is genetics
what is epigenetics what is the
nanotechnology what is the neuroscience
and the basic vocabulary once you have
that you're able to make a lot more
sense when you read the articles when
you read the books and then what I do is
in each subject that when I'm learning I
set my Twitter feed only for the size
Journal only index field that means I'm
going to be looking at the science
magazine the New Scientist and every
single science magazine that has the
articles about that subject and then
wake up in the morning I get up around
4:30 in the morning and I spend the
first two hours just going through every
size journal what has come out since the
pies went to bed all right and then once
I know that then I start to learn and
start to ask people I would call the
authors of the book I'll need the people
did I take your call because you're
Naveen Jane know or like could anybody
do it so that more often than not you
reach a you know reach out to them on
social media and then I would say 9
o'clock especially if everywhere is
awesome 90% of time you reach out to
people on LinkedIn you reach out to them
on Facebook or you reached out to them
on Twitter and say I just finished
reading your book really love the
following session I have that I have one
thought I want to run it by you and see
what you think of it very early one if
somebody's going to see no other one
talked to you
so people send me your thought and
here's my email and that's how you start
the conversation right hack number seven
how to enjoy rejection I love to say
this especially to entrepreneurs
one of the great secrets in life to
becoming successful whether it's in a
business whether it's working with
someone or for someone or in your
personal life and I learned this selling
encyclopedias door-to-door early 20s is
be prepared in life for a lot of
rejection because if your parent for a
lot of rejection it comes you don't get
turned off you don't get disappointed
like well I'm not going to do this
anymore no one thinks it's a good idea
it's like I say selling encyclopedias
not going
ours they slab them your faced you must
be just as enthusiastic on door number
101 as door number one and that's what
the real secrets and growing up as kids
in downtown LA we all knew that we
didn't have a lot when there's a lot of
things going to turn you down at Stefan
trying to sell a flowerpot on the street
most people said no but it's only 50
cents no no no soon an waitress and
olive restaurant said only 50 cents
that's really great she bought it from
us we went built another one that
developed that really is like one of the
secrets to the universe in my opinion
that ability to stay as enthusiastic on
door 101 as you were on door 1 when you
had it slammed in your face over and
over and over how is that something you
can teach like in fact have you parted
that on to your kids like is that
something that they have adopted and if
so how did you pull that off
definitely it's just like your viewers
of your fabulous show here they just
heard me say that now if they write that
on a piece of paper be prepared for a
lot of rejection whether it's in their
personal life that someone says you're
too old you're too fat you're too young
you're not going to do anything other
than yes you've got holes in your nose
you got these coming at your ears
whatever is other than yes this is
wonderful relicense can happen in life
as soon as people know that when
something goes wrong they look at a
piece of paper oh yeah that reminds me
the other quotes I give people a lot
especially entrepreneurs is any business
you're in whether it's a service or
whether it's a product or anybody you
work with that as a product or a service
always make sure that your product or
your service is of the highest quality
you could ever make it because you do
not want to be you do not want to be in
the selling business you want to be in
the reorder business granted you've got
to tell somebody what your idea is and
you know how it's going to cure
something they may need but the quality
has to be so good that after that they
want to reorder it or if it's a one-time
item tell friends about it and if people
thinking whatever they're doing in life
you know reorder business what is with a
personal relationship whatever you see
right now your to see again and again
and again it's going to enhance they'll
be ups and downs
here's my product it's so darn good
you're going to use it we started Paul
Mitchell we had no money but we knew our
product was so darn good that we got ads
of enough people they're going to be
reordering it because it was that
quality service the same way hack number
8 how to create a comeback what advice
would you give to somebody in your shoes
a true world-class athlete they've had
this catastrophic injury what what's
your advice to them in that moment of
uncertainty when they don't know if
they're going to be able to come back or
not I think really it's acceptance is is
where you need to end up you talk about
in stages of grief and you know Aubrey
talks about injury is kind of like the
stages of grief after death almost and
not to be that dramatic but to realize
that it's okay how you're feeling and
kick scream cry do whatever it is you
need to do let it out
but give yourself a time limit so I said
after my injury so I had and I was
miserable and I was you know just a bear
to be around but I told myself okay I'm
going to myself two weeks to be an awful
person about this and then you know what
I'm going to pick up and move on and say
what can I do now in this scenario and
really what it was in what I found is I
cut myself off and then I looked at how
can I make the best of this situation
and for me that ended up in being able
to do commentary work and being able to
be on the course be on the sidelines
support my fellow athletes and actually
take joy and their in in their
accomplishments in their victories
instead of seeing them as competitors
and so it's about reframing what you can
do in that moment for instance I
realized very early on when I was trying
to become an attorney that I always had
this notion that I want to be a
prosecutor and on an on stage and things
like that and I realized I don't do
public speaking very well
and that would seize up and it was awful
for me so I had seen you do publicly
very very well but it's one of those
things that I've had to cultivate and
it's one of those things that I've had
to practice and so I think that that the
hard things you know give you cultivate
that mental toughness and people say
okay well how do i how do I make it a
habit or how do i how do i cultivate
mental toughness and I say that well
that's what you do you make it a habit
is that you don't give yourself the
option and something you you pick
something put it into your routine
whether it's waking through up 30
minutes earlier every day so you can
actually get out the door to move your
body and you just don't think about it
you don't give yourself the option to
not do it to me it's celebrating the
little victories for sure it the first
time that I letting those build like
momentum and confidence in you
yes for sure because every single little
victory is going to create that bigger
sense of of self so that first run back
where I did a mile and it was like
high-five I felt like I had just run a
hundred miles but it was that little
wave that just that if you can keep
building on those and unfortunately it's
never going to be a smooth linear linear
progression and so those little setbacks
are the times where you need to realize
okay it's just a blip on the radar so
it's kind of going to look like this but
as long as you can kind of see that goal
towards the end and embrace that process
that's really how I've been rebuilding
act number nine how to come up with
business ideas you said that it takes
nothing more than insight and drive to
be successful and then the question I
like screamed out of my mind was can you
train to be more insightful absolutely
all right how do you do that so here's
the simple exercise for everybody
watching and I guarantee you that thirty
days from today from when you watch this
you will have more deal flow than any
venture capital firm in Silicon Valley
take a piece of paper and today write
three problems in your life I traffic
this morning you know I forgot to take
my medicine whatever might be but do
this every day for a month because what
you're on five to the first day it's
kinda easy made a second it but after a
vet you know like okay I wrote down my
problems so what else is a problem that
you aren't identifying because you've
accepted that's the way it is that's way
it's always been that you know you work
in a big corporation well this is the
way we do it well you're going to go out
of business doing that and then when you
have those ninety ideas what are you
passionate about and what affects the
most people and the intersection of
those two in your life you are
passionate about nutrition that it could
change people's lives okay and you saw a
way that you could financially impact
them with a healthy bar and those
intersections led to success your
insight got you there and you solved for
a whole bunch of people no one sells a
product no one buys something you know
you know no one went into a store and
bought a quarter inch drill bit because
they wanted a quarter inch drill bit
they want a quarter inch hole right hey
right very well that somebody made the
drill bit because you wanted a hole okay
so fill those holes that's all that's as
simple as it can be act number 10 how to
find happiness so most of what we've
talked about today is in your book
amazing read this book but there's one
thing that I've heard you mention which
is a two-year study of doing unhappiness
which you didn't talk about in the book
yeah you have any nuggets that you're
ready to talk about yes so I have one
course on that already it's called the
power of happiness and it's like a it's
ten different steps that we've just
started learning about but I will give
you one just to start off with right now
and it's if it's call I've called the
skill the chart of happiness
so we end up thinking that happiness
comes with the big vacation once a year
or the big blowout of things once every
month we don't realize it actually
happiness comes in these very very small
moments every day and actually that is
those the happen moments we have to
savor so what i'd highly recommends for
the next few days sit down and make a
chart of everything that you do in your
life down to making a steaming hot cup
of coffee down to going for a run down
to doing laundry and then I want you to
rank each of those things on how happy
they make you and I don't mean like
happiness like euphoric I mean like
happiness like content with your life
like I am content doing this and this
sounds crazy but even like laundry or
cooking some of we often think of as a
chore can provide a certain amount of
contentedness if you look at that look
at it that way so way to rate all of
those skills and then I want you to
count up the number of hours you spend
on each of those skills every day what
you'll end up finding is you end up
doing what I call happy math
happy math is basically looking at the
fact that we end up spending the
majority of our week you know 90% of our
week doing tasks that rank as a one or
two or three not very happy on the happy
scale and we end up having these really
small once-a-week moments where we're
actually happy but really there are
these small little moments it's it's
having that amazing cup of coffee or
taking in your view from your window or
whatever these little small things those
minutes add up and I think it's about
slowly hacking how can you add in more
and more of those minutes here's another
kind of tip on happiness stuff that I
just realize would be a really easy one
to try so other I cut halves are these
little moments of happiness there's also
these little moments of unhappiness but
as humans we cannot help but inspect our
entire life so you know how when you're
sitting at a red light and you literally
question your entire existence about
anyone whatever happen an intruder
yes so you're sitting in a red lay and
you're like why do I sit in traffic why
do I Drive to work why do I do what I
work why am I doing this maybe I should
quit my job maybe I should have done
white maybe I should have a car like
that's like what happens you know so one
of the hacks that I have found works
really well is taking those small
moments and turning them into what I
call gratitude totems so a totem is like
a symbol or something to remind you of
something so I have a red light by my
house so I get stopped at every single
day it doesn't even matter what time of
day I used to yell at this red light I
would curse at it and then I realized
wait a minute like this light causes me
so much unhappiness I have such a hard
time being grateful like every open
magazine every year says be more
grateful who has time to be grateful
right like no one has time to do that
but now I have time so whenever I am
stopped at that red light for the entire
red light I think about every single
thing I'm grateful for and now I get
upset if I do not hit it because I know
that every time I pull out red light I
have a minute and a half just think
about all the things I'm grateful for
check I got my gratitude off I feel nice
and good I slipped a very unhappy moment
for me that makes me question driving
and cars and my life and turn it into
something that actually makes me very
appreciative that is brilliant I hope
you guys enjoyed that and if you did be
sure to leave a review if you're on
iTunes and stitcher or leave a comment
if you're on youtube as you know
community is everything to us so we love
hearing from you guys and if you want to
see another compilation show like this
let us know and suggest any topics that
you'd like us to cover and this is a
weekly show so if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
everybody thanks so much for joining us
for another episode of impact theory if
this content is adding value to your
life our 1 ask is that you go to iTunes
and stitcher and rate and review not
only does that help us build this
community which at the end of the day is
all we care about but it also helps us
get even more amazing guests on here to
show their knowledge with all of us
thank you guys so much for being a part
of this community and until next time be
legendary
[Music]